---
ebook:
  title: 北京邮电大学智能科学与技术2022级大二上第6周周赛题目
  base-font-size: 6
  margin: -2
---

# <center>A. Multiple Choice</center>
<center>2 seconds, 128 megabytes</center>

<br/><br/>

In this problem, you will have 5 questions to answer. Each question has 4 choices (marked A, B, C and D), and only one of them is correct. You should choose the correct answer for each question.

### Subtasks

#### Easy (57 points): 

**You must pass this subtask to get any score.**

1. Which of the following is logically equivalent to $p \rarr q$?

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A. $\neg p \rarr \neg q$

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;B. $\neg p \vee q$

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;C. $p \wedge q$

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;D. $q \rarr \neg q$

2. Which of the following should be avoided in floating-point calculation?

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A. Multiplying two numbers with greatly different magnitudes

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;B. Multiplying two similar numbers

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;C. Adding two numbers with greatly different magnitudes

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;D. Adding two similar numbers

3. Generally speaking, which of the following is not suitable for linked list?

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A. A large number of random access operations

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;B. A large number of deletion operations

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;C. A large number of element swapping operations

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;D. A large number of traversal operations

#### Hard (43 points): 

Partial score is calculated by the number of correct answers.

4. The following table shows the passing status of 10 students in a class for Advanced Mathematics and Introduction to Artificial Intelligence. What is $H(\text{Introduction to Artificial Intelligence}|\text{Advanced Mathematics})$? (23 points)

| Advanced Mathematics | Introduction to Artificial Intelligence |
| - | - |
| Failed | Failed |
| Failed | Passed |
| Failed | Passed |
| Passed | Failed |
| Passed | Passed |
| Passed | Passed |
| Passed | Passed |
| Passed | Passed |
| Passed | Passed |
| Passed | Passed |


&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A. 1.5710

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;B. 0.5027

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;C. 0.9183

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;D. 0.6897

5. Which of the following is not a regular language? (20 points)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A. $\{w|w \text{ is an decimal number divisible by 7}\}$

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;B. $\{w|w \text{ is an decimal odd number}\}$

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;C. $\{w|w \text{ is an decimal number whose length is prime}\}$

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;D. $\{w|w \text{ is an decimal negative number}\}$

### Input

### Output

Output 5 letters in any format, each letter represents the answer to the corresponding question.

The checker is case-insensitive and it will ignore all unrelated characters, such as spaces, line-breaks, numbers, punctuations and emojis.

### Example
#### Input
```
```
#### Output
```
AAAAA
```

### Note
**The sample output is only for the purpose of explanation. It is not the correct answer.**

# <center>B. Comparing Sets</center>
<center>2 seconds, 128 megabytes</center>

<br/><br/>

In this problem, you are given 2 sets $X$ and $Y$. Please compare them in the following way:

- If $X$ is a proper subset of $Y$, output `<`.
- If $Y$ is a proper subset of $X$, output `>`.
- If $X$ equals $Y$, output `=`.
- Otherwise, output `.`.

### Input

The first line starts with an integer $n$ ($0 \leq n \leq 10^5$), the number of elements in set $X$, followed by $n$ strictly increasing integers $x_i$ ($0 \leq x_i \leq 10^9$), the elements in set $X$. ($\forall i \in [1, n - 1], x_i < x_{i+1}$)

The second line starts with an integer $m$ ($0 \leq m \leq 10^5$), the number of elements in set $Y$, followed by $m$ strictly increasing integers $y_i$ ($0 \leq y_i \leq 10^9$), the elements in set $Y$. ($\forall i \in [1, m - 1], y_i < y_{i+1}$)

### Output

One line, one of `<`, `>`, `=`, `.` as described in the problem statement.

### Examples
#### Input #1

```
0
0
```

#### Output #1

```
=
```

#### Input #2

```
2 1 2
1 1
```

#### Output #2

```
>
```

### Note

In input #1,
$$
\varnothing = \varnothing
$$

In input #2,
$$
\{1, 2\} \supset \{1\}
$$

### Subtasks

Easy (57 points): $n, m \leq 5$. **You must pass this subtask to get any score.**

Hard (43 points): $n, m \leq 10^5$. Partial score is calculated by the number of passed test cases.

### Language Knowledge

Some contestants may be unfamiliar with data structures, so we provide some useful functions or classes in the standard library of C/C++/Java/Python. If you have done our data structure homework, you may not need them.

- [C bsearch](https://www.runoob.com/cprogramming/c-function-bsearch.html)

- [C++ set](https://blog.csdn.net/qq_50285142/article/details/122304728)

- [Java HashSet](https://www.runoob.com/java/java-hashset.html)

- [Python set](https://www.runoob.com/python/python-func-set.html)

# <center>C. Egyptian Fraction</center>
<center>2 seconds, 128 megabytes</center>

<br/><br/>

The Egyption fraction of a fraction $p \over q$ is a finite strictly increasing sequence of positive integers $n_1, n_2, ... , n_k$ whose reciprocal sum is equal to $p \over q$.

From the textbook:

The Egyptians of antiquity expressed a fraction as a sum of fractions whose numerators were 1. For example, 5/6 might be expressed as
$$
{5 \over 6} = {1 \over 2} + {1 \over 3}
$$
We say that a fraction $p/q$, where $p$ and $q$ are positive integers, is
in Egyptian form if
$$
{p \over q} = {1 \over n_1} + {1 \over n_2} + ... + {1 \over n_k}
$$
where $n_1, n_2, ... , n_k$ are positive integers satisfying $n_1 < n_2 < ... < n_k$.

Now, given an Egyption fraction $n_1, n_2, ... , n_k$.

Please give another sequence of positive integers $m_1, m_2, ... , m_l$ such that these two sequences represent the same proper fraction.

Please note that in this problem we only discuss proper fractions, i.e. fractions greater than 0 and less than 1.

### Input

The first line contains an integer $k$, the number of integers in the Egyption fraction. ($1 \leq k \leq 50$).

The second line contains $k$ positive integers $n_i$, the positive integers in the Egyption fraction. ($2 \leq n_i \leq 10^4$). ($\forall i \in [1, k - 1], n_i < n_{i+1}$)

### Output

The first line contains an integer $l$, the number of integers in the Egyption fraction. ($1 \leq l \leq 100$).

The second line contains $l$ positive integers $m_i$, the positive integers in the Egyption fraction. ($2 \leq m_i \leq 10^9$). ($\forall i \in [1, l - 1], m_i < m_{i+1}$)

The output must not be exactly the same as the input, where exactly the same means $l = k$ and $\forall i \in [1, l], m_i = n_i$.

### Example
#### Input

```
3
2 4 30
```

#### Output

```
3
3 4 5
```

### Note

In example,
$$
{1 \over 2} + {1 \over 4} + {1 \over 30} = {47 \over 60} = {1 \over 3} + {1 \over 4} + {1 \over 5}
$$

### Subtasks

Easy (57 points): $k \leq 12$. **You must pass this subtask to get any score.**

Hard (43 points): $k \leq 50$. Partial score is calculated by the number of passed test cases.

# <center>D. Polynomial Family</center>
<center>2 seconds, 128 megabytes</center>

<br/><br/>

Noticing that we always get an arbitrary constant $C$ when we perform indefinite integration. For example, $\int x^2 \mathrm{d}x = \frac{1}{3}x^3 + C$. In this case, the right side is called a original function family.

To make it easier to study, Paimon decides to propose a narrower definition, polynomial family$^\text1$, which is in the form of

$$
a_n x^n + a_{n-1} x^{n-1} + ... + a_2x^2 + a_1x + C
$$

Paimon calls two polynomials $f$ and $g$ **in the same family**$^\text1$ if and only if there exists a constant $C \in \mathbb R$ such that for any $x \in \mathbb R$, we have

$$
f(x) = g(x) + C
$$

$^\text1$: This concept is made up by the problem setter, you probably can't find it anywhere else.

Now, there are two polynomials $f$ and $g$ with order at most $n$.

Paimon knows the function values of $f$ at $n + 1$ points, and the function values of $g$ at $n + 1$ points.

Now, she wonders whether $f$ and $g$ are in the same family. If so, she wants to know the constant $C = f(x) - g(x)$.

### Input

The first line contains an integer $n$, indicating that the order of $f$ and $g$ is at most $n$. ($0 \leq n \leq 8$)

The next $n + 1$ lines, each line contains two integers $x_{f,i}$ and $f(x_{f,i})$, indicating the $i$-th point on the function $f(x)$, and there will be no duplicate points. ($-100 \leq x_{f,i} \leq 100$, $-10^9 \leq f(x_{f,i}) \leq 10^9$)

The next $n + 1$ lines, each line contains two integers $x_{g,i}$ and $g(x_{g,i})$, indicating the $i$-th point on the function $g(x)$, and there will be no duplicate points. ($-100 \leq x_{g,i} \leq 100$, $-10^9 \leq g(x_{g,i}) \leq 10^9$)

### Output

The first line contains `YES` or `NO` (case insensitive), answering whether $f$ and $g$ are in the same family.

If the first line answers `YES`, the second line contains a floating point number $C$ (no requirement on the number of digits after the decimal point), indicating the constant difference. If the first line answers `NO`, there will be no second line.

Your answer will be accepted if and only if the relative or absolute error between your answer and the jury's answer does not exceed $10^{-6}$.

### Examples

#### Input #1

```
2
0 0
1 1
2 4
3 10
4 17
5 26
```

#### Output #1

```
YES
-1.000000000
```

#### Input #2

```
1
0 1
1 2
0 2
3 2
```

#### Output #2

```
NO
```

### Note

In input #1, $f(x) = x^2$, $g(x) = x^2 + 1$, so are in the same family and the constant difference is $C = f(x) - g(x) = -1$.

In input #2, $f(x) = x + 1$, $g(x) = 2$, so they are not in the same family.

### Subtasks

Easy (57 points): $n \leq 1$, that is $f$ and $g$ are both linear functions. **You must pass this subtask to get any score.**

Hard (43 points): $n \leq 8$. Partial score is calculated by the number of passed test cases.

**In particular, the sample data of this problem is not Test #1 of Subtask #0, because it does not meet the data range of the easy subtask.**